 

Judge Spf Court
-aksa Mushal-: -

IN THE SPECIAL COURT, BAKSA : AT MUSHALPUR

Present : Shri C. Das
Judge, Special Court
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.28/2018
u/s 4 of POCSO Act

State
-versus-

Sri Alfan Soren

..... Accused

Appearance :
For the State : Mr. R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused : Mr. T. Sarma, Advocate

Date of evidence : 29.11.18, 16.3.19, 29.5.19
Date of argument: 24.6.19
Date of judgment : 8.7.19

JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 12.9.17, the
complainant Sri Shankar Konwar lodged a FIR before the In-charge of Darranga-
mela police out-post, alleging inter-alias that the accused has been committing
sexual intercourse with his 14 years old daughter/ victim girl(name is withheld) For
last several months. When the victim girl lost the menstrual period, he came to
know about her pregnancy.

2. Accordingly, the police lodged the Darranga-mela OP. GDE. No.186
dated 12.9.17 on the basis of the said FIR and Forwarded it to the Officer-in-charge
of Tamulpur police station For Formal register of a case. Thus, the Officer-in-charge
of Tamulpur police station registered the Tamulpur PS. Case No.262/17 u/s 4 of
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (in short ; the POCSO Act) and
 

Judas Spi rt
Ba!

2 Mushalour endorsed the I/O to investigate the case. During the investigation, the 1/O visited
the place of occurrence, drew up its sketch map and examined the witnesses
including the complainant and the victim girl. The I/O also, sent the victim girl For
medical examination and recording her statement u/s 164 of Code of Criminal
Procedure (herein after referred as CrPC) and at the end of investigation, the I/O
having a prima-facie case well established, submitted the charge-sheet against the
accused to face trial in the court.

3. The accused when appeared in the court, he was furnished with the
relevant copy of the case immediately. After hearing both the sides and perusing
the material on record, the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the
accused. The charge so framed, was read over and explained to the accused who
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial examined as many as, 7(seven)
witnesses including the I/O and M/O to support its case. Thereafter, statement of
the accused was recorded u/s 313 of CrPC where he took the total denial of all
incriminating circumstances appeared against him in the evidence. The accused
however, declined to adduce any defence evidence. The argument of the parties
was heard at length and perused the evidence on record.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION :

5. Whether on 12.9.17 and before some months, at Horotola village
under Tamulpur police station, the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
upon the victim girl who is minor daughter of the complainant Sri Shankar Konwar ;

DECISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

6. Learned Public Prosecutor, initiating the argument of the case for
the prosecution, submitted that it must be kept in mind that while appreciating
evidence on record, that the victim girl is a minor one and she has to be treated a
victim of the occurrence. If her evidence is compared with her statement recorded
u/s 164 of CrPC., it would show total consistency between it and as such, it can
easily be held that her evidence is totally reliable since no ordinary minor girl like

the victim would make a False story to implicate the accused in such serious crime
committed against her. Apart from that the evidence of the father informant as
well as, PW4 and 5 corroborated the version of the victim girl vis-a-vis, the evidence
of doctor confirmed her pregnancy. He submitted that considering the nature of
offence, the delay is not important. According to him, all the prosecution witnesses
could able to bring home the charge against the accused as such, the accused may
be convicted under proper provisions of law, he urged.

7. In support of his contentions, learned Public Prosecutor placed
reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court passed in Mukesh vs. State of
Chhatisgarh in Cri. Appeal No.1114 of 2011 decided on 25" September 2014,
wherein it was observed that the sole testimony of the witness is sufficient to
establish the commission of rape even in the absence of corroborative evidence.
Reliance has been placed on the decision of this court in the case of Mohd. Iqbal vs.
State of Jharkhand which states as under :- There is no prohibition of law to convict
the accused of rape on the basis of sole testimony of the prosecutrix and the law does
not require that her statement be corroborated by the statements of other witnesses.
Further, in Narender Kumar vs. State of (NCT of Delhi) this court has observed
that even if a woman is of easy virtues or used to sexual intercourse, it cannot be a
licence for any person to commit rape and conviction can be based on sole testimony
of the prosecutrix provided it lends assurance of her testimony. However, in case the
court has reason not to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face value, it may
look for corroboration. In case the evidence is read in its totality and the story
projected by the prosecutrix is found to be improbable, the prosecutrixs case becomes
liable to be rejected.

8. Per contra, learned counsel for the accused submitted that there is
delay of about 164 days in lodging the case but there is no explanation made by the
prosecution. He submitted that local meeting For settlement of difference with the
accused as transpires From the evidence but thereafter, the case was filed after
long delay after Failure of local settlement in the village of the complainant. Hence,
in absence of proper and satisfactory explanation as to the delay, the case of the
prosecution cannot be relied upon and should be rejected. As regards to pregnancy
of the victim, it alleged in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses that it was the
accused who committed sexual intercourse with the victim but there is no medical
evidence including any DNA test to confirm that the pregnancy of the victim was
caused by the accused. Therefore, the accused is entitled to get benefit of doubt
over the prosecution case, he maintained.
So far as the offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act is concerned, there must
be penetration to commit the offence of sexual assault on a child. The nature of
definition to attract such offence is provided u/s 3 of the said Act. It reads as a
person is said to commit “ penetrative sexual assault” if —

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person ;
or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child
to do so with him or ant other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or

the child to do so to such person or any other person.

10. Another important aspect of the prosecution case is that the victim
should be a child within the meaning of section 2(d) of POCSO Act. The said
section reads that “child” means any person below the age of eighteen years. Thus,
te law says that irrespective of a boy and girl, the child should be below 18 years of
age to attract the offences under the Act. So before going in to evidence of the
case, it is pertinent to Find out if the victim girl of this case is a child within the
meaning of section 2(d) of the Act.

11. After going through the record, it appears that the victim testified
herself as 1 years of age at the time of her examination in the court. PW2 Sri
Shankar Konwar is the complainant of the case and the natural father of the victim
girl stated in his testimony that the victim girl is 14 years old at the time of
occurrence. No document to prove the age of victim girl is Furnished by PW2.
Hence, only option is to rely the medical evidence. The prosecution examined the
doctor as PW6. She stated that X-ray report of the victim girl shows that the age of
the victim is above 14 years but below 16 years. Thus, such evidence of doctor
: makes it clear that the victim was below 18 years old at the time of occurrence and
judge 86 Cour as such, she is a child within the meaning u/s 2(d) of POCSO Act. Therefore, the
Baksa Mushalrr provisions under this Act is applicable to the accused.

12. Coming to other main aspects of the case of the prosecution, it
appears the victim was examined as PW1. She deposed in the court that on the
Fateful day in the morning she went to collect Fire wood near the bagan of the
accused. At that time, the accused came from behind and gagged her mouth and
thereafter, the accused removed her cloths and committed sexual intercourse with
her. The accused after that, droved her to her home. Later on, she reported the
incident to her mother. After 6 months, she came to know about her pregnancy.
Her mother informed her father who filed the case before the police. The local
public came to know about the incident. The police sent her for medical
examination and recording her statement by a magistrate.

13. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that she did not disclose the
incident immediately to her mother but after she became pregnant, she reported
the incident to her mother. Thus, the evidence of PW1 implicates the accused but it
appears that she did not disclose the matter For about 6 months.

14. PW2 Shankar Konwar is the father of PW1. He Filed the FIR before
the police. He stated that on the fateful day, PW1 went to collect fire wood. The
accused caught PW1 from behind and committed physical relation. The age of the
victim was 14 years old at the time of occurrence. Initially, PW1 did not disclose the
incident to him. After 6 months, when PW1 became pregnant, local public inquired
about it and called for a local meeting. PW1 disclosed in the meeting that it was the
accused who caused her pregnant. The local public informed the police. Hence, the
accused was arrested. He filed the FIR. The victim was sent For medical examination
and recording her statement in the court. At present the girl child of PW1 is aged
about 11 months.

15. In the cross-examination, PW2 disclosed that he did not state to the
police earlier that PW1 disclosed the name of the accused For causing her pregnant
in the village meeting. Thus, from the evidence of PW2, it transpires that PW1
discloses the incident to him much later and after 6 months while a village meeting
was held to inquire about the pregnancy of PW1 and presently, PW1 gave birth to a
child.

16. PW3 Smti. Jaymati Konwar is the mother of PW1 and wife of PW2.
She stated that on the Fateful day, PW1 went to collect fire wood. At that time, the
accused caught PW1 and committed sexual intercourse with her. After 3/6 months,
PW1 reported her about the incident. A local meeting was held in connection with
the incident. The locals informed the police who arrested the accused. The police
sent PW1 for her medical examination and recording statement in the court. At
present, PW1 has a child of 11 months.

17. In the cross-examination, PW3 stated that she has not worked in the
garden of the accused. She stated to the police earlier that a village meeting was
held in connection with the occurrence. Thus, PW3 lends support to the version of
PW1 and 2.

18. PwW4 Sri Teg Bahadur Pradhan deposed that one year back, a local
meeting was held in his house where the local public assaulted the accused
physically For causing PW1 pregnant. He was present in the meeting and the police
was informed. Thus, the evidence of PW4 supports the fact of holding a local
meeting in connection with cause of pregnancy of PW1.

19. The evidence of PW5 Budheswar Munda is that a local meeting was
held in connection with the occurrence between the accused and PW1. The accused
was handed over to police. The local public imposed fine payable by the accused.
PW1 had a child from the side of the accused. PWS lends support for holding a
meeting in connection with the incident.

20. PW6 Dr. Dhritishree Barman is the Medical Officer who medically
examined PW1. The Medical Officer stated that PW1 changed her clothing and
washed up her genitalia, mouth, anus and canal and changed her cloths after the
incident as well as, Finding given that fondle height equals to 28 weeks of
gestation. Apparently, the medical evidence corroborates the fact that PW1 was
carrying pregnancy For 28 weeks gestation. There is no dispute over finding given
by PW6.

21. The evidence of PW7, I/O of the case, Sri Nayanmoni Das is that he
received the FIR of PW2 vide Ext.3 and started the investigation of the case on the
basis of endorsement of the higher authority. He proved the sketch map vide Ext.4.
he sent the victim to record her statement u/s 164 CrPC and for her medical
examination. He arrested the accused. He collected the medical report of the
victim. At the end of the investigation, the I/O submitted the charge-sheet against
the accused vide Ext.5.

22. In the cross-examination, I/O stated that he did not send the victim
For DNA test. Thus, from the evidence of I/O, it appears that the pregnancy of the
victim is not determined to match with the accused. However, the victim girl was
medically examined by doctor. The medical evidence tendered by PW6 confirms
that PW1 is pregnant for 28 weeks gestation at the time of examination. The
evidence on record, discloses that PW1 presently, gives birth to a child.

23. Further, the evidence of the prosecution witnesses shows that PW1
became pregnant for sexual intercourse caused by the accused with her. The
incident was come into light of other for about 6 months. PW1 never stated that
the accused threatened her not divulge it before anybody neither there is evidence
to show that the accused promised to marry PW1 but did not do so. The evidence
of PW2 shows that PW1 disclosed the incident before the public in a local meeting.
Before that nobody had the knowledge of the incident. It is also, discloses from the
evidence that PW1 came to know about her pregnancy after missing of her
menstrual period after 6 months of incident. But by latest, a girl/ Female can
become pregnant immediately after sexual intercourse by a man within one month.
A period of 6 months is too long to conceive. Therefore, the period of 6 months as
stated by PW11 is Found to be not convincing to rely upon.

24. As regards to delay in lodging the FIR as pointed out by the defence,
the evidence of PW2 shows that he was not aware of the occurrence until disclosed
by PW1. Apparently, PW2 disclosed the occurrence after 6 months when she
became pregnant and a local meeting was held for the occurrence. After knowing
the occurrence, it appears that PW2 Filed the ejahar. Non disclosure of incident by
PW1 immediately after the occurrence, cannot be attributed to him. It appears that
without delay, PW2 filed the ejahar as soon as, he came to know about the incident.
Considering the explanation cited by PW2, it appears that explanation for delay is
satisfactory and there is no room for doubt over the version of PW2.

25. It appears that PW1 is child witness in the case and the sole victim of
the alleged occurrence. No doubt, sole testimony of the rape victim can be relied
upon if her evidence is wholly reliable. But in case of child victim, there is need of
some corroboration since such child may be vulnerable to being tutored by other
persons. In State of Bihar vs. Kapil Singh, AIR 1969 SC 53, it was held that when a
child witness is easily tutored its evidence always dangerous to be accepted
without proper corroboration.

26. In the present case in hand, it appears that PW1 did not disclose the
incident for about 6 months. When a village meeting was called, she disclosed the
name of the accused who caused her pregnant. PW1 does not disclose the reason
For keeping the incident without divulging to her parents or any of her closed
person. There is no evidence that the accused threatened PW1 of any physical hurt
if she disclosed the incident before others. The evidence of PW2, 3, 4 and 5 relates
to discovery of pregnancy of PW1 allegedly caused by the accused. They have only
placed a circumstance which discloses that the accused allegedly made PW1
conceived. But they are not an eye-witnesses of the occurrence. Such circumstance
cannot implicate the accused only by PW1 who is a child witness, without
corroboration. In between the occurrence and local meeting after discovery of
pregnancy of PW1, there is no evidence to corroborate her version. Thus, such for
concealing the matter for long time renders the evidence of PW1 unreliable.
Moreover, the I/O did not cause the victim for DNA test to verify the paternity of
the accused. In view of above, the accused is entitled to get the benefit of doubt.
Accordingly, the accused is given the benefit of doubt.

27. Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, the
prosecution has failed to prove its case against the accused beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act and he is
acquitted and set at liberty. He is required to Furnish bail bond u/s 437-A CrPC. The
victim is entitled to get adequate compensation under Assam Victim Compensation
Scheme from DLSA, Baksa at Mushalpur. Inform the DLSA, Baksa, accordingly.

28. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 8" day of July
2019.

Dictated and corrected by:

——————

C. Das
JukigtgepSgial Court; Syd grecial Court,
Baksa Méskatpuour “Baksa, Mushalpus,..

Typed by : P. Deka, Com. Typist
ANNEXURE ;

<> List of prosecution witness :

PW3

PW1..
PW2..

. the victim girl (name withheld)

. Sri Shankar Knowar ... informant
... Smti. Jaymati Konwar

PW4...
PWS...
PW6...
PW7..

Teg Bahadur Pradhan

. Sri Budhesawr Munda

Dr. Dhritishree Barman... m/o

. Sri Nayanmoni Das ... I/o

List of defence witness:

Nil

List of documents exhibited:

Ext.1 ... medical report

Ext.2 ... x-ray report

Ext.3... FIR

Ext.4 ... sketch map

Ext.5 ... charge-sheet
Judge; Speciat Court

6 Baksa, MusHatpur,-

